Welcome back.
So we've learned how to overload the copy and move assignment operators.
Now let's look at some of the other operators in C++ lets us overload.
C++ allows us to overload operators as member methods or as global nonmember functions.
In this video we'll use member methods to overload operators and in the next video who overload the
same operators using global functions.
So let's start with the operators unitary operators work on one operand.
Those operators include the increment decrement unitary negation and the bag or not operator.
Notice the basic method declaration in bold in the case that we have to return a new object from the
method will return the new object by value.
Also notice that you remember methods have an empty parameter list.
This is because the object we're working with is referred to by the this pointer.
So here you can see the prototypes for the operators.
If we wanted them to work with our hypothetical number class.
Also notice that we can overload both the pre and post decrement and increment operators C++ simply
provides an int that is it used in the parameters for the post-increment at the bottom of the slide
you can see how we can use the operators as we do with the built in types and what methods are being
called in the comments section.
Suppose we wanted to overload the U.N.-Arab minus operator to work with are my string class and we want
to make the stream lowercase whenever it's used.
So we can create a mystery object named Larry one with the initializer string uppercase Larry.
Then we can use the minus operator on Larry one and store the result in Larry 2.
Now Larry 1 will still contain the upper case Larry string but Larry 2 will contain the lower case Larry
string.
This is a simple example of unitary operator overloading using member methods.
However the question is whether this makes sense where programmers we can make anything happen in code.
Does it make sense for the minus operator to mean make the string lower case.
It depends on the context of the application and the design.
Personally I'd prefer a method named lowercase or lower cased or to lower since that's very explicit
but this might make sense in another design.
Let's see how the code might look.
Here's the code for overloading the unit minus to make a string lowercase.
Notice the method header where returning a new object that will be the lower case copy of the existing
object were overloading the operator minus We expect no parameters to this method and it's a Konst method
since we don't want to modify the current object.
We want to create a new object based on it.
So the first thing we do is allocate space for an area in memory on the heap where we want to store
the lowercase copy of the current object string.
Then we use the Stood string copy function to copy the string over.
Then we simply loop through the characters in the copy and convert each character to its lowercase equivalent
using the character function to lower in the CC type header file.
Once we have the buffer lowercase then we construct a temporary string object using this lowercase string
as the initializer.
Finally we delete the buffer we created in this method so we don't leak memory and we return the newly
created lowercase object.
We could certainly get more optimized code here but I wrote this method to show each step explicitly
So that's the general pattern for overloading a unitary operator using a member method.
Now let's see how we can implement some binary operators also using member methods as we know binary
operators are applied to two operands.
These operators include addition multiplication division the quality operators and many more.
The pattern for overloading these operators is very similar to the way we overloaded you unary operators.
Except that now we have a single parameter in the method parameter list.
I've named this parameter r h s which stands for right hand side.
That way it's very clear that r h s refers to the parameter on the right hand side of the operator and
the pointer points to the object on the left hand side of the operator.
Notice the overloaded addition and subtraction operators return the newly created some or different
objects by value.
Also notice that the quality operators return boolean values which makes sense since they're comparing
things you can see in the bottom of the slide how these operators might be used in a hypothetical number
class.
Now let's see how we can implement the equality operator in my string class.
In the case of my string objects.
We want to compare the strings to see if they're the same.
We don't want to compare the pointers.
Instead we want to compare the strings that the pointers point to.
Rather than write all the code ourselves we can use the Stood string compare function in the C string
header file which compares C-style strings exactly as we need when we call that function with two C-style
strings that will return 0 if the strings are equal.
So this method becomes almost trivial to implement.
We compare as TR from this object to SC or from the right hand side object.
And if the result is zero we return true.
Otherwise we return false.
That's it.
Now we can write code like if s one equals as two to compare to my string objects for equality.
What if we wanted to write an overloaded equality operator for the player class well we'd have to decide
what we want to compare.
Are we comparing the names of two objects or the health or the XP or everything.
This would be an important decision and the program is using the player class would have to be clear
as to what's being compared.
So they can use it correctly.
Now let's wrap up the slides by overloading the addition operator for the my string class.
Suppose we wanted to overload the binary plus operator for the my string class so that it concatenates
the strings from the left hand side and right hand side objects into a new object.
Then we could use this as in the example code.
First we can create my string objects Larry and Moe and stooges then we can write a statement like Larry
plus Stooges which will concatenate the string Larry and the string and stooges to create a new string.
Larry is one of the Three Stooges.
Notice that we can also use C-style strings on the right hand side.
This is because we have a string constructor that can construct my string objects from a C-style string.
That's pretty cool.
The only limitation to overloading operators is member functions is that the object on the left hand
side must be an object of the class you're using.
For example the last statement in this slide won't compile since the left hand side operand is not a
String object.
We can get this to work in the next video when we implement operators has nonmember functions.
OK so let's take a look at the code for this method.
It's probably exactly as you would expect.
We allocate a character buffer large enough for both of the strings plus one for the string Terminator
that we allocate this but from the heap first we copy over the left side string withstood string copy
and then we concatenate the right side string withstood string cat.
We create a new object that will contain the concatenated string using the buffer as the initializer.
And then finally we deallocate the local buffer area so we don't leak memory and then we return the
newly created object by value.
You can see that first.
This looks complicated but the more you do it patterns evolve that are very very similar.
Great so let's head over to the idea and implement these operators for the my string class as member
methods.
Case went back in the ID.
I mean the section 14 workspace in the my strained dash operator dasht methods project in this project
what we're going to do is we're going to overload three operator and as member methods.
And the ones we're going to overload are right here.
The equality operator that allows us to compare two objects as we can see here the negation operator
the unary minus operator which in our case we're going to make whatever string we want to negate lowercase.
And finally the concatenation operator will take two string objects and make a bigger string object
from it that contains those two strings put together just like we've done before using the regular string
class.
And you can see we can extend this so we can have Moe plus blank Plus Larry post-playing plus curly
and this is a C style string right here.
So it will be pretty flexible.
OK so why don't we start.
We're going to implement them as member methods.
So let's go to our header file and create our method prototypes here.
In the case of the concatenation and the minus where we're going to make things lowercase we're going
to return my string objects.
So we create a string object and it's going to be returned by value.
We want to create a new object right.
We're going to take those two strings make a new one.
Return it.
We're going to take that one string.
Make it lowercase into a new and return it.
We're not going to change anything that we've got going already.
So let's do the operator minus first.
OK.
So it's you know be the operator overloading again is operator followed by the operator we want which
is minus in this case.
And what are we going to be passing into this.
Nothing that's a unitary operator.
So we've already got what we need and the left side of the dot.
It's important to understand that when we're overloading operators as member methods you unary operators
take no parameters by unary operators take one parameter because this is already a parameter on the
left side.
And we want this to be Konst and this will mean to say make lower case version of the string.
All right.
Now let's do the concatenation operator.
This is a binary operator so we need one parameter in this parameter list and that parameter will be
Konst my string reference and we'll call it right hand side.
Important that it's conc because we really don't want to mess with that.
And then the last one is the equality operator.
It will return a boolean true false value and it will be operator two equal signs.
It's binary.
So it's going to expect a constant five string reference right hand side.
And we want this to be a Consta method as well.
So I don't want to change anything.
Actually I want this one to be Konst as well.
That's it.
So those are the three prototypes.
Now what we'll do is we'll go to the mine string see if our implementation file and will implement those
methods so let's do that now.
OK so going to put them right here right after the overloaded assignment operators.
It why don't we start with the overloaded equality operator.
So that is again bull it returns a boolean.
It's part of my string class.
The name is operator.
Two equal signs and it expects on the right side of my string reference to a constant we'll call it
R H S and the method is a Konst method as well.
OK so what do we do here well we want to compare those two strings right.
The string in this and the string in right hand side.
So all we really need to do is just simply say return and then we can call stood string compare which
is a C string function that compares to see strings which we got.
So as TR is one of them and right hand side that as far as the other one.
And if that returns zero will return the value there.
OK so simple as that we could use an if statement if we like but this works just as well.
So that takes care of that and this will be it see quality.
Now let's do make lower case.
And in this case we're returning a string object by value.
It's part of the my string class there's my scope resolution operator and it's operator minus nothing
in the parameter list because it's a unitary operator and it's conc because we don't want to change
our current object again.
Now what do we have to do here.
Remember we need to make a copy of whatever is in the current object.
Make that lowercase and then create a new object from it.
And need to allocate space to create that copy so that I can make lower case i don't want to change
the objects because I can't write.
I don't want to it's a contest method.
So what do we do.
Well let's create a temporary area in memory called Buff and we'll create a new array of characters
there.
And how big is that going to be.
Well it's going to be as big as the length of the string and as to your plus one.
And again we're using stood stranglings here given that string so if it's Frank I'm going to get back
five allocate one.
This is a brand new pointer to an area on the heap that I just allocated.
It's local to this function.
So when we're finished with the function we need to get rid of that and deallocate it.
So now what do I do.
Well at this point I need to copy the string that's in as TR to buff.
OK now we've got a copy of that string so we can do now is we can just simply loop through that and
set equal to zero.
And then we can go while I is less than let's say the string length
of s here or the string length.
But actually they're both the same right now
and we're going to go by one.
That's it.
Now inside the loop what we want to do is we just simply want to say buff Sabai equals the lower case
version of it right so stood and we're going to do to lower it which is a function in the CC type header
file.
So we'll say to lower and to lower while the character itself of Sabai gets it.
Now we've got what we need but now contains a copy of that original string and we've just made it lowercase.
So what do we want to do.
Now I want to create a new object a temporary object right on the stack here based on that information
so I'm going to say my string would just call it temp and initialize it from above.
Now we want to return 10 and then we'll be done.
But there's one thing we need to do.
And it's really easy to forget and it's this is one of the benefits of using smart pointers which we'll
talk about later on in the course.
Right here I allocated this area in memory.
I have used it right here.
I'm done with it.
I need to deallocate that space otherwise I'll leave that memory.
So I want to be sure that right here I delete buff and that's it.
That takes care of that.
And then the last method is the concatenate method which again is really straightforward.
We're going to create a new string from it.
So by value it's in my string method we'll call it OPERATOR clus and it expects something on the right
hand side which is my string
by reference we'll call it our age as is usual and it's a contest method as well.
That's it.
So what do we do here.
Well Same idea here right.
I just need to allocate an area in memory for characters with call it but again and how big is this
going to be.
Well this needs to be since we're concatenating and has to be this the length of this string plus the
length of the right hand side string plus one.
So that's all we're going to do.
We're going to say new char how many.
Well the length of the TR plus the length of right hand sides as TR plus one that allocates the storage
on the heap that I need at this point I need to copy the first string and then concatenate the second
string to as I can build the bigger string from it.
So we'll say stud string copy into buff from the left hand side string which is S.R..
Then we'll do a stud string cat to concatenate again into buff from the right hand side.
TR perfect so what we've done now is we've just copied one string and concatenated the other.
At this point we've got the information we need in buff to create that new temporary object and I'm
going to return something we did appear so we'll build that object we'll call it temp we'll build it
with the buffer information.
Remember the leap but we're done with it now and return
that temporary object.
So that's it.
We should be done unless there's any typos or let's compile and run and you can see here we've got a
copy constructor being used.
There is five moas three.
We got back false and true exactly what we expected and we get Larry uppercase Larry.
Lowercase L that we have Moe and Larry Moe Larry and Curly.
So everything looks great.
All right so there you go.
That's an example of implementing these three overloaded operators as member methods are get a lot more
chance to practice this when we get into the challenge exercice what we'll do in the next video is we'll
do the same three operators but we'll do them as nonmember functions.